>> Brian Holt: We're gonna show you
a couple of tools of how to do this.
This is memo, useMemo and useCallback.
For all of these, we're gonna have
like little starter templates.
Cause again, I'm not gonna have you recode
your vite config every single time.
We have done this ad nauseum both
between the last course and this course.
So I have a little starter template for
each one of these.
So if you're not familiar with GitHub,
it's really easy to just come in here and
say, code, download a zip,
which is exactly what I'm gonna do, and
then I'm going to open this NVS Code.
Project Starter is the one that
we're carrying about now, and
we're gonna do perf first.
So we're gonna be in VS Code,
and here we go.
We have my project nice and ready to go.
First thing, MPMI, and there we go.
Nothing super special here, vite.
Marked, we're gonna be rendering
Markdown like a Markdown preview.
React, react- dom and
vite, and that's about it.
So you have your Client.jsx,
this is all this is doing is
just rendering it to the client.
I have a very long markdown file for
us to render.
And App.jsx,
which has nothing in it at the moment.
Again, if we go back and
look at my code here, or my page,
I have the completed project here.
So if you wanna go and compare what
I've written, or anything like that,
this is all written here that you
can see the final results there.
Was anyone really hoping
to write that V config?
They were just, really pumped about it and
I just ruined this for you.
If it is, I just say,
what's wrong with you?
[LAUGH] You're broken the same way I am,
probably.
I actually really like build tools.
Okay, here we go.
So let's go hop into our editor,
and we're gonna make a new file first.
We're gonna call this MarkdownPreview.jsx,
okay?
And we're gonna make this thing
at the top called JANK-DELAY.
So, JANK is actually a technical term now,
before it was just something that
was like that looks janky right?
But they call it JANK,
I don't think there's another term for it.
When you scroll down and like pauses and
jumps, they call that JANK, right?
So we're actually gonna introduce
intentionally JANK into our code.
So export, default,
function, markdownPreview.
Render and options.
>> Brian Holt: So const, and we're gonna
make this thing called expensiveRender.
And this is gonna be a function
that all it's gonna do is it's
gonna say const start = performance.now.
If you're not familiar,
there's a performance API in your
browser that lets you fine-tune,
measure things.
And we're just gonna make
it an empty while loop,
while the JANK isn't there yet, right?
So while performance.now-
start JANK DELAY.
So what's this gonna do?
This is just gonna keep running,
it's gonna tie up the thread,
right, for 100 milliseconds.
This is to simulate something like
that's really expensive and really busy.
Cuz, again, I tried really hard to get
make my markdown complex enough, and
I couldn't get it to JANK on my laptop.
So maybe someone has an older laptop for
me.
This is like an m3 MacBook,
and then you have to return
null because it needs to
be a valid React component.
You can play with this as well, turn up to
like 150, 500, and something like that,
you can turn it down as well.
Return div, I even tried doing a Three.js,
I built an entire Three.js.
It's like this is definitely in a JANK if
I try and re-render this a bunch of time?
No, I don't know what they did,
but three works great now.
It's just the number of GPU cores.
It must be, it was wild.
I was really impressed with that.
I was wondering like a car, it was like
re-rendering it continually really well.
So last render, we're gonna just put this
in here so you can see how frequently.
This is technically like bad code,
because this is going to be different
every time that you re-render it.
But I want you to see how
frequently it's re-rendering, okay?
And then we're gonna say div,
class name = markdown-preview.
>> Brian Holt: And
we were talking about this before.
This is actually how you, intentionally,
do dangerously set inner HTML.
We're gonna do that,
cuz this is markdown, right?
In theory you can trust markdown.
In theory, this is how they get you.
This API is intentionally opaque.
They do this so that they really
don't want you to do this.
Render options.text, we're also gonna
change the style to be equal to.
So, color : options.theme,
and then underneath it,
we're going to put expensiveRender.
>> Brian Holt: So
every time this re-renders, right,
you're gonna run this like
intentionally janking sort of thing.
This still makes me laugh.
Dangerously set in our HTML.
They were very explicit about that.
They have an API in there
called React Internals,
do not use this, or you'll be fired.
I think that they have changed now.
Do not use this, or they call something
else because someone complained
that firing was not a good thing.
I just thought it was funny,
but it's probably a good point.
You have to be very aware that
you're doing this because
cross-site scripting is a real thing.
So if you're not careful with this,
you will open yourself up
to cross-site scripting.
Okay, app.jsx,
let's go build that very quickly.
And we're going to import
use effect from react.
We're going to import marked,
which is the name of the markdown library
we're going to be using from marked.
We're going to import,
I've reacted on there twice,
so you can just put it in here, useState.
>> Brian Holt: Import MarkdownPreview
from MarkdownPreview, cool.
And Import MarkdownContent
from./markdownContent,
which is just that long markdown
file that I made for you.
>> Brian Holt: Export
default function App.
Okay, and let's just run,
a little bit of React here.
>> Brian Holt: Const, text,
setText from = useState
markdownContent.
So this is the initial state, right, then
we're gonna allow our users to edit it.
Const, time, setTime = useState,
Date.now Line and five, and
nine need a K in Markdown.
What?
>> Student 1: Missed the K in Markdown?
>> Student 2: Both line five and
line nine, need a K.
>> Student 1: I mean, sorry,
neither one needs it.
>> Student 2: [LAUGH].
>> Student 1: But as well.
>> Brian Holt: I appreciate that,
thank you.
Except Dustin, I don't appreciate that.
Theme, setTheme
>> Brian Holt: = useState, and
we'll just green, red, yellow, something
there, I don't really care, some theme.
UseEffect, so what we're gonna do here,
just to kind of, again, demonstrate,
like a constantly changing UI, we're just
gonna put a clock on the page, right?
We're gonna say const interval =
setInterval,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're just gonna say setTime Date.now.
>> Brian Holt: And you can decide
how often you want this to run.
Start with every second,
sound good, something like that.
If you wanna make it update a lot,
you can do it every millisecond.
Depending on your laptop,
it probably can go okay.
Const options = text,
theme, and const render
you're gonna be as a function
text which returns,
marked parse text.
What, hooks?
No, I don't want hooks.
Where did that come from?
You might be wondering
why we are doing this.
Technically, you could actually just
make it like a direct pass through.
One, I wanted to be more explicit, as you
can see that this is taking in text and
it's giving it directly
to marked.parse.text.
You can imagine that MarkdownPreview could
be like a general-purpose component that
just takes in any render function and
then displays it nicely for you.
So I wanted to show you kind
of like that pattern as well.
Okay, so now we have all the machinery
up here, let's make our markup,
return div className = app,
h1, this is perf with React.
H2, we're gonna say
Current Time is time, and
we're gonna say label for
theme, and then say, choose a theme.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
I'll put a select onChange e,
and then you just want to do set
theme e.target.value.
>> Brian Holt: And then you just need
a couple of options here, I don't really
care as long as it's a valid CSS color any
one of these will work, value = green.
>> Brian Holt: Green,
let's just make like four of these.
>> Brian Holt: Blue, blue, yellow, yellow.
>> Brian Holt: I mean,
you can get creative CSS colors like Peru,
it's one of my favorites,
whatever you want.
I just have red here, so we'll put red.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
that'll allow us to do that.
And then we wanna do our text area so
div, className = markdown, and
then we're gonna have our textarea.
And in there we're gonna have
className = markdown-editor and
value = text and onChange = e,
setText e.target.value,
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we'll have our MarkdownPreview
just right next to it,
with options =(options) and
render =(render).
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that should be
enough for us to capture the JANK here.
So, let's run it.
So I think you just did npm run
dev is that what I put in here?
I did okay npm run dev that'll
run it on 5173, right,
that's the default port for vite.
I think I said this in my intro course but
that's 5 is V in Roman numerals and
that's V173, so,
vite that's what they did, yeah?
You're gonna have a memory
leak in your use effect again.
This one luckily never changes pages.
But you are correct that
my use effect here as
well you should do return,
clearInterval, but thank you.
Yeah, I appreciate that.
I always forget that,
in case this is not obvious,
I always forget this and
then figure out why is this slow?
That's me.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so 5173, this one.
>> Brian Holt: So we have our
entire thing here, that looks good.
And you notice that this render and
this render move kinda in lockstep.
>> Brian Holt: Notice it's
a little delayed, right?
My scrolls aren't too bad here,
cuz again modern
browsers and
modern computers are just marvels.
But if I start trying to make
this re-render a lot and
just be like typing, it gets bad.
I'm typing quite a bit here,
and it's struggling.
>> Brian Holt: All right, I'm sure
you're seeing something kind of similar.
And it's just not good that
this clock is changing, and
this is changing every
single time as well.
So, rendering this with that
expensive render every single time.
We could make this, real bad.
If we come in here and say, it'll start
overlapping if you make it too long.
>> Brian Holt: Trying to refresh this,
let's see.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah I mean look at this,
it's bad.
[LAUGH] that's nauseating.
Okay, let's stop,
we'll keep it 100 milliseconds.
It's about all I can take.
Okay, hopefully you see the problem here,
right?
I mean, even if we weren't
doing this expensive render,
let's just turn that off for
a second to see, or
we can put the JANK DELAY like one
millisecond or something like that.
Yeah, right there.
>> Brian Holt: So let's try this now,
I'm sure this will actually
work pretty well, right?
>> Brian Holt: It's impressive that like
this is re-rendering that entire markdown
file every single time,
which is wild to me, right?
Obviously, that's not what you'd wanna do,
but you can see reacts, performance
profile is still actually really good.
This is still working really well.
I'm also wildly impressed by
this markdown parser as well.